01.
Red Rocks Coastal Walk 
2–3hr, 8km (return) 
Beginer
Experience the wildest part of Wellington’s rugged south coast. 
Meet the seals in winter just beyond Red Rocks (Pariwhero) 
at Sinclair Head – but don’t get too close! The easy grade 
coastal track from Owhiro Bay passes historic baches built 
in the early 1900s. The 4WD track is closed to vehicles every 
Sunday. Exposed during southerly winds.

02.
Wind Turbine to Red Rocks Route 
3-4hr, 11.7km (one way) Intermediate  
From Wind Turbine car park follow marked trails: Initally 
Windmill until you meet Carparts Ext then right onto Barking 
Emu, then follow Red Rocks Track along ridges until you 
get down to the coast. Return to Owhiro Bay via Red Rocks 
Coastal Walk (10). Exposed. 

03. 
Wrights Hill Loops 
Loop One 1.5hr, 2.4km; Loop Two 45min, 1km 
Check out the WWII military fortress, spot rare birds  
and take in the views. Mostly sheltered but exposed in  
some places

04.
Brooklyn Wind Turbine Route 
2hr, 7.8km (one way) 
Explore regenerating bush in Polhill Reserve and take in the 
best views of the city. This route is popular with mountain 
bikers, runners – and native birds from the nearby sanctuary. 
From the top of Aro Street follow Transient, Sawmill, 
Fenceline and Windmill tracks.

05.
Mount Victoria Lookout Loop 
1.5hr, 4km
Only minutes from the city. Walk through historic pine forests 
and enjoy unbeatable views of the harbour and city.

06. 
Wellington Botanic Garden 
10min–2hr, various lengths
Views and surprises are around every turn. Microclimates  
in Wellington Botanic Garden host exotic forest, native bush, 
floral displays and themed gardens. Bring a lunch and make 
it an outing, or escape from the office for a quick break.

07. 
Makara Walkway 
3–4hr, 6km
Walk on Wellington’s wild western coastline for fabulous 
views of Mana, Kāpiti Island and the South Island. Check 
out the massive wind turbine, historic pā site and the gun 
emplacements. The area is exposed, and the track is steep 
in places. Best accessed at low tide.

08. 
Otari-Wilton’s Bush 
10min–2.5hr, various lengths 
Choose from the many short walks in New Zealand’s only 
public botanic garden dedicated solely to our native plants. 
Experience life in the tree canopy walkway through native 
bush. The 4.5km Skyline Loop Walk is suitable for those  
with good fitness – it is steep and challenging in places.

09.
Te Ara Paparārangi  
1.5hr, 5km (one way)
Take in arguably the best views of Wellington Harbour on this 
walk along the Harbour Escarpment from Waihinahina Park, 
Newlands. Allow 30 minutes return via streets

10. 
Skyline Walkway 
5–6hr, 13.8km (one way)
Travel along Wellington’s ridge tops above the Outer Green 
Belt from Makara Saddle to Johnsonville via Mount Kaukau. 
This track is also used by mountain bikers and can be 
challenging. The ridgeline is exposed and weather conditions 
can be extreme. The route can be completed in stages. Allow 
1 hour to return by bus or train.
